Introduction

Self-sufficiency or self-reliance is a “MYTH” if it means that a country depends only and only on itself for all its needs and is able to satisfy all the wants of its citizens without any external help. It is possible for a country to aim at self-reliance but as of 2021 there is no country that is self-reliant in the true sense of the word. This clearly hints at interdependence of continents, countries, state-governments, people, etc. We live in the 21st century which is highlighted by advancements in technology, globalization, improved healthcare and very importantly an extensive focus on research and development in any field imaginable. 
Globalization a key word practically of high essence basically refers to a spirit of interconnectedness of people across the world-economically, culturally and politically with due credits to technology, information sharing, etc. The real implementation of Globalization was witnessed after the landmark 1991 Economic reforms. With globalization we also focus on international trade-Import and Export. But often trade which in simple layman’s terms is only meant to have benefits for all parties concerned, especially international trade is something which results in international tensions- be it US-China trade war, etc. To understand the causes and reasons behind this it is important to understand the concept of Import and Export and how it has an effect on a country.
•	Import- The concept of bringing in a good or a commodity of demand into a country from a foreign nation by an individual or a company for the purpose of selling it in the local market to the citizens with the sole purpose of earning profit.
•	Export- The concept of sending a good or a commodity of demand into a foreign country which is the country other than good producing country by an individual or a company for the purpose of selling it in the local market of the foreign country to the citizens with the sole purpose of earning profit.
With the understanding of Import and Export it becomes critical to understand how and why data of a country’s Import and Export matters. EXIM or Export and Import data basically relates to the movement of a resources-be it natural resources, man-made resources, etc across the international boundaries of nations. 

Objective of study

Indian politics has always been fascinating especially because India is one of the greatest International trade partners and also because India is strategically positioned between rival nations-China and Pakistan with history of wars in the 1900’s and early 2000. Any change in political stability in India can be an opportunity for the other nations and thus globally India is always on keen watch of government agencies. India plays a major role in trade especially pharmaceuticals- API raw material, vaccines, etc. which has been proven with the 2019- ongoing Covid-19 pandemic, technology, textile, metal, etc.
 The objective of this study is to analyze the change in the import and export data of India during the period of 2010-2018 wherein there are glimpses of political instability and change in power of the central government which indicates change in outlook towards international problems, new relationship development, etc. Such changes are critical because new government may or may not chose to continue the deals and international treaties which the previous government was keen on implementing. 
For the purpose of study, we have a data of commodity trade both export and import of India with several International Country, Island Country and even State- Governmental deals for a period of 2010 to 2018. For the purpose of study, we will use special analysis tools like- python programming language and its special data analysis libraries- Numpy, Pandas, Matplotlib, Seaborn. 
Python is a general-purpose interpreted, object- oriented, high-level programming language with dynamic semantics. Python is a 4th generation programming language and was created and released in the year 1991 by Guido van Rossum. The advantages of using python include it being simple and easy for interpretation by the programmer, having limited syntax to be learnt, extensible, portable, having built-in data structure, having automatic memory management, allowing reusability of code which improves productivity and efficiency of developer and finally it having a large structural library for all almost all Internet applications like Internet, email, etc. 

Data and Hypothesis

For the purpose of the study, we have 2 separate dataset each for Import data between year 2010-2018 and the other for Export data for years 2010-2018. The data for export consists of HS Code of commodities being exported, Commodity name, the value of commodity being exported in million US ($), the year of transaction and finally the Country or trade partner who is importing the goods being exported by India. There are a total of 1,37,023 entries or records of export data between years 2010 and 2018. On the other hand, the data for import consists of HS Code of commodities being imported, Commodity name, the value of commodity being imported in million US ($), the year of transaction and finally the Country or trade partner who is exporting the goods being imported by India. There are a total of 76,124 entries or records of export data between years 2010 and 2018. In order to conduct the test, it is important to create a proposition which will be tested in the process or the so- called hypothesis. 

- Null Hypothesis or H0:	Political instability and change in government do not have an impact on a country’s international trade-import and export
- Alternative Hypothesis or H1:	Political instability and change in government do have an impact on a country’s international trade-import and export
